hi everyone in this video I'll be
showing you how to use Gemini AI API
with your own PDF data and get response
without even using Lang chain okay so
I'm going to do this entire thing in
Python so let's get started so first
thing just Google Gemini a API and if
you scroll down you'll be having the
first link which is built with the
Gemini API just click here after this
here you need to sign in with your
Google account once you have done with
that just click on get API key in Google
AI studio and you'll be taken to an
interface like this here we can upload
or give some text prompts and run it
okay and in this video we are interested
in uploading a PDF okay so for doing
that you'll be having here option called
as file click that and just click on
upload
file and just upload your file I will
just upload my recent file which is a
PDF 4 here just click on
insert so this is the content present in
my PDF just a random company and like a
financial report of a company so I'll
just ask this but now you see this get
code option right you won't be having
the necessary code for PDF okay this is
just a normal text prompt so once we
click on this run prompt you'll be
actually getting the necessary code to
use your PDF and get a response from
gini API and this is currently available
only in Python War here so I will just
copy this code and
now go to V Studio code and open a
folder and make sure that you have your
PDF in that folder just open it let me
name it as main.py the python file and I
will just paste the code over here so
here we need to do a few
changes first is we need to have our API
key so for getting the API key just go
here we just close everything and to the
left you'll be having this get API key
click that and going just click on okay
and just click on create API
key and in case if you're using this for
the first time this option will be
enabled or else you can just select any
Google project and click on
this you'll be getting the API key just
copy this if you want to delete it you
can delete it that's your choice after
this just go here and just put your API
key you can just have it in the
environment variable for better security
this is demo purpose so I'm just hard
coding it over here and here if you
scroll
down here you can see they are having a
add logic to read the PDF and return the
list of pages here so we need to change
this particular part so I will just
completely remove this okay remove this
piece of code and first thing is we need
to open our PDF so it's going to be with
open path name this will contain the PDF
path or the PDF name so it's going to be
path name over here and we're just going
to read the PDF so it's going to be
RB and let's have a name it's going to
be
file so now we need to install the pi
pdf2 package so it's going to
be pip install Pi pdf2 okay you're just
installing
this yeah just install it and go and
import it it's going to
be
from PI
pdf2 import PDF reader okay just import
this and next come to the same spot yeah
here it's going to
be reader equal to PDF reader the thing
we imported and inside this we need to
pass our variable which is file this
variable should come here and next is we
will be iterating through each and every
page of our PDF it's going to be for let
me just have it as page number
in
range it's going to be length
of reader
dot Pages just having a for loop with a
condition as total number of pages in
our PDF and it's going to
be page equal
to reader
dot pages of page number right and it's
going to
be Parts which is this variable that we
have just a list do upend you can just
copy this line just copy this and put it
inside this upend and you need to
have double codes and close this yeah
and rather than having start of PDF just
change this
to page and inside the curly bracket
just pass the page number something like
this yeah so this is fine next thing is
going to be
parts do upend now we will be extracting
the text from that particular page it's
going to be page
dot extract text that's the function and
after that we'll be just returning the
parts so now we are good over here and
this piece of code is fine next thing is
this history I don't need this stuff so
let me just remove this
pieces of code and yeah just have this
and here you need to specify your
document name so in my case it's .pdf so
I'll just rename this in case if you're
having it in some other folder you need
to specify the full path so I'll just
have here ut. PDF next if you scroll
down this is going to be the user input
so let me just change this so let me
just open the PDF and this is the
Revenue data of that company and it has
a net profit column so I'll just ask
what is the total net profit of the
company
what is the total net profit that's good
and we'll be printing the response so
now we are good over here so let me just
save this just a few modifications and
final thing we also need to import the
generative AI python package so this one
really important thing so this is the
one that we are going to install which
is PIP install Google hyphone generative
AI so if you scroll down we'll be having
the sample code so we already have here
a pip install statement so we can just
copy this and just run
this yeah now it's good we just clear
the console after this we're just going
to run our python file so it's going to
be python space
main.py and hit
enter so my question was What's the
total net profit and if I go to my PDF
data total net profit is around 1025 45
85 125 it's 125 800 yeah it's 125 and it
has given a breakdown for for me also
it's 125 million so let me ask another
question also this time let me go with
what is the gross profit of year two
okay yeah and I'm saving it you can just
have a infinite oil Loop and you can
just put the code inside that and you
can just ask multiple questions so
that's totally up to you so I will run
this and the answer is going to be gross
profit for year to is $60 in millions of
course and yeah it has given the answer
and this method works fine for PDFs with
less number of pages in my case my PDF
has only two pages so this method Works
super fast and it occupies less number
of tokens so imagine you have hundreds
of pages it's always better to use Lang
chain where you have the vector store as
well as the embeddings so large number
of tokens won't be used so only the
content that you search will be sent to
the API and you'll be getting a response
so that's the video guys do check the
playlist of my channel done a lot of
videos in Gemini a API open a API as
well as other AA tools and cred
operations check the playlist subscribe
me thanks for watching